1. Trains
When the Stockton-Darlington Railway opened in 1825, people feared the worst: the human body, surely, wasn't made to travel at incredible speeds of 30 miles per hour. People genuinely believed that going that quickly would kill you in gruesome ways, such as your body melting.

2. Telephones
The telephone wasn't greeted with universal enthusiasm. Some elderly people feared that touching it would give them electric shocks, while men worried that their wives would waste too much time gossiping. In Sweden, preachers said the phone was the instrument of the Devil and phone lines were stolen or sabotaged; others feared that the lines were conduits for evil spirits. The invention of telesales would prove them right.

4. CRT monitors
In the mid-2000s there were widespread concerns that radiation from CRT (cathode ray tube) monitors could cause miscarriages in pregnant women. Initial studies suggesting a link couldn't be replicated, but the display industry adopted the TCO93 and TCO95 safety standards to reduce CRT radiation anyway.

5. Wi-Fi
The killer Wi-Fi scare has the same roots as the killer-CRT one: it's about invisible radiation that some people believe has terrible effects, in this case "electrosensitivity" and cancer. Newspapers ran lots of lurid headlines about the potential dangers of Wi-Fi but to date there's still no reliable evidence of any ill-effects from wireless data of any kind. That won't stop this one from turning up again when wireless charging becomes mainstream.

6. The Y2K bug
In the run-up to the year 2000 we were told that computers' reliance on two-digit year fields meant that when the new millennium dawned we'd be dodging falling aeroplanes, getting stuck in lifts and generally experiencing the kind of post-apocalyptic wasteland you get when The Guardian writes about Newcastle. In the end nothing happened, which either proves that the people who fought the Y2K bug did a fantastic job of saving the world or proves that the whole thing was a load of made-up old bollocks all along.


7. Robots
Robots! Coming over here, taking our jobs… actually, that one came true. Digital technology has replaced humans in all kinds of fields, whether it's sampling replacing session musicians, ATMs and self-scanning checkouts replacing bank clerks and supermarket staff or Amazon replacing pretty much everything. Google's self-driving cars and Japan's care robots suggest that the process of robots making humans redundant is only just beginning.

8. Cloning
When Dolly the sheep hit the headlines in 1997, US physicist Richard Seed promised to clone the first humans within 18 months - and later promised that the first clone would be of himself. There's still only one of him, and cloning remains the stuff of Orphan Black rather than everyday reality. Nobody's making clones for spare parts or working on a clone army for world domination. Or if they are, they're keeping it awfully quiet.